README.md, before:

# ⚖️ SafeAppealNavigator

*Support this project: [paypal.me/safeappealnavigator](https://paypal.me/safeappealnavigator)*

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator?style=social)](https://github.com/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator/stargazers)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Python 3.13+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

**Your intelligent companion for navigating WorkSafe BC and WCAT appeals. Organize case files, research legal precedents, and build compelling appeals with AI-powered document management and legal research.**

SafeAppealNavigator helps injured workers, legal advocates, and their representatives tackle the complex world of Workers' Compensation appeals. Whether you're dealing with a denied claim, preparing for a WCAT hearing, or organizing years of medical documentation, this tool transforms overwhelming legal processes into manageable, organized workflows.

## 🎯 Who This Helps

- **Injured Workers**: Organize your case, understand your rights, and build stronger appeals
- **Legal Advocates**: Streamline case research and document preparation for clients
- **Family Members**: Help loved ones navigate complex WorkSafe and WCAT processes
- **Support Organizations**: Assist multiple clients with consistent, professional case management

## ✨ Key Features

### 📁 Smart Case Organization
- **Document Management**: Automatically organize medical reports, correspondence, and legal documents
- **Timeline Builder**: Create visual timelines of your case progression and key milestones
- **Deadline Tracking**: Never miss critical deadlines or hearing dates
- **Evidence Categorization**: Smart tagging and organization of supporting documentation

### ⚖️ WCAT & WorkSafe Research
- **Precedent Discovery**: Find WCAT decisions with circumstances similar to your case
- **Policy Analysis**: Search and understand relevant WorkSafe BC policies and procedures
- **Case Strength Assessment**: AI analysis of your position based on similar successful cases
- **Gap Identification**: Discover what evidence or documentation might strengthen your case

### 📝 Professional Document Creation
- **Appeal Letters**: Generate well-structured appeal submissions with proper legal formatting
- **Medical Summaries**: Transform complex medical records into clear, compelling narratives
- **Case Briefs**: Create comprehensive overviews for legal representatives or hearings
- **Evidence Packages**: Organize supporting documentation for maximum impact

### 🤖 AI-Powered Insights
- **Plain Language Explanations**: Complex legal concepts explained in understandable terms
- **Strategic Recommendations**: Next steps and strategies based on case analysis
- **Document Analysis**: AI review of your documents to identify strengths and weaknesses
- **Research Assistance**: Intelligent search across legal databases and precedent cases

## 🚀 Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- **Python 3.11 or higher**
- **Node.js 18+** with npm
- **Windows, macOS, or Linux**

### Quick Start

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator.git
   cd safeappealnavigator
   ```

2. **Set Up Python Environment**
   We recommend using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for managing dependencies:
   ```bash
   uv venv --python 3.13
   ```

   Activate the virtual environment:
   - **Windows (PowerShell):**
     ```powershell
     .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
     ```
   - **Windows (Command Prompt):**
     ```cmd
     .venv\Scripts\activate
     ```
   - **macOS/Linux:**
     ```bash
     source .venv/bin/activate
     ```

3. **Install Dependencies**
   ```bash
   # Install Python dependencies
   uv sync

   # Install frontend dependencies
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..

   # Install browser automation capabilities
   playwright install chromium --with-deps
   ```

4. **Configure Environment**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Open `.env` in your text editor and add your API keys (optional but recommended for enhanced AI features):
   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-key"
   ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-key"
   GOOGLE_API_KEY="your-google-key"
   ```

5. **Launch SafeAppealNavigator**
   ```bash
   python run_app.py
   ```

   The application will start both the backend and frontend. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

## 📖 How to Use

### 🏥 Starting Your Case

1. **Create New Case**: Set up a new case file with basic information about your injury and claim
2. **Upload Documents**: Import medical reports, WorkSafe correspondence, and any legal documents
3. **Build Timeline**: Add key dates like injury date, claim submission, decisions, and deadlines
4. **Describe Situation**: Provide details about your injury, treatment, and WorkSafe interactions

### 🔍 Research & Analysis

1. **Find Similar Cases**: Search WCAT decisions for cases with circumstances like yours
2. **Analyze Outcomes**: Understand how similar cases were decided and what factors were important
3. **Review Policies**: Research relevant WorkSafe BC policies that apply to your situation
4. **Identify Precedents**: Discover favorable legal arguments and supporting case law

### 📋 Building Your Appeal

1. **Assess Your Position**: Get AI analysis of your case strength based on precedents
2. **Identify Gaps**: Discover what additional evidence or documentation you might need
3. **Draft Documents**: Generate professional appeal letters and supporting documents
4. **Organize Evidence**: Structure your supporting documentation for maximum impact

### 📅 Case Management

1. **Track Progress**: Monitor deadlines, hearing dates, and case milestones
2. **Manage Communications**: Organize all correspondence with WorkSafe, medical providers, and legal representatives
3. **Prepare for Hearings**: Get talking points and evidence organization for WCAT hearings
4. **Document Everything**: Maintain detailed records of all case-related activities

## 📊 Real-World Success Stories

### 🏗️ Construction Worker - Denied Surgery Coverage
**Challenge**: Back injury from lifting, surgery coverage denied
**Solution**: Found 12 similar WCAT cases where surgery was approved, generated appeal emphasizing medical necessity
**Outcome**: Surgery coverage approved on appeal

### 🏥 Healthcare Worker - "Not Work-Related" Claim
**Challenge**: Repetitive strain injury denied as non-work related
**Solution**: Organized evidence linking injury to work duties, found precedents for similar injuries
**Outcome**: Claim accepted after comprehensive appeal submission

### 🚛 Driver - Mental Health Benefits
**Challenge**: PTSD after workplace accident, mental health benefits denied
**Solution**: Research showed precedents for psychological injury acceptance, organized witness statements
**Outcome**: Mental health claim recognized and benefits approved

## 🛡️ Privacy & Security

- **Local Data Storage**: All your case information stays on your computer
- **Secure API Connections**: All AI interactions use encrypted connections
- **No Data Sharing**: Your personal and legal information is never shared or stored externally
- **Open Source**: Full transparency - review the code yourself

## 🤝 Contributing

SafeAppealNavigator is open source and welcomes contributions from the community. Whether you're a developer, legal professional, or someone who has navigated the WorkSafe system, your insights can help others.

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator.git
cd safeappealnavigator
uv sync
```

### Code Standards
- Follow PEP 8 style guidelines
- Add comprehensive docstrings
- Include type hints for all functions
- Write tests for new features

## 📄 License

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

- ✅ Commercial use allowed
- ✅ Modification and distribution permitted
- ✅ Patent protection included
- ⚠️ Attribution required
- ⚠️ Notice of changes required

## 🆘 Support & Resources

- **Documentation**: Comprehensive guides in `/docs`
- **Issues**: Report bugs and request features on GitHub
- **Discussions**: Community support and questions
- **Legal Disclaimer**: This tool assists with legal research and document preparation. Always consult qualified legal professionals for legal advice.

---

**Created and maintained by [SavagelySubtle](https://github.com/savagelysubtle)**

*Empowering injured workers to navigate the legal system with confidence* ⚖️

---

## 🔧 Technical Architecture & Acknowledgments

SafeAppealNavigator is built using modern web technologies and incorporates several open-source libraries to provide its functionality:

### Core Technologies
- **Frontend**: React + TypeScript with Tailwind CSS for modern, responsive UI
- **Backend**: FastAPI with WebSocket support for real-time communication
- **Database**: SQLite with vector search capabilities for case storage and similarity analysis
- **AI Integration**: Support for multiple LLM providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, DeepSeek, Ollama)

### Key Libraries & Components

**Browser Automation**: Utilizes browser automation agents for intelligent web navigation and legal database research. These components enable automated interaction with WCAT, CanLII, and other legal research platforms.

**Agent Communication (A2A)**: Implements an Agent-to-Agent communication protocol that allows specialized AI agents to coordinate complex legal research tasks, document analysis, and case preparation workflows.

**AG-UI Protocol**: Custom WebSocket-based protocol for real-time communication between the React frontend and Python backend, enabling seamless user interaction with the multi-agent system.

**Multi-Agent Architecture**: Employs specialized agents including:
- Document Processing Coordinator
- Legal Research Coordinator
- Database Query Coordinator
- Chief Legal Orchestrator

### Open Source Foundations

SafeAppealNavigator leverages and builds upon excellent open-source projects:
- **Playwright**: For reliable browser automation
- **LangChain**: For LLM orchestration and prompt management
- **AutoGen**: For multi-agent conversation patterns
- **FastAPI**: For high-performance API development
- **React**: For modern user interface development

This application represents a specialized legal research tool that combines these technologies to serve the specific needs of WorkSafe BC and WCAT case management.

Commit message:

feat: Enhance README and architecture documentation, improve MCP configuration handling
- Updated `README.md` to include optional tool configuration via MCP, detailing integration capabilities and enhancing user guidance.
- Revised `ARCHITECTURE.md` to clarify the UI structure and backend interactions, ensuring accurate representation of the system's architecture.
- Improved `MCPConfigTab.tsx` with auto-refresh functionality for MCP configuration, allowing real-time updates and better user experience.
- Refactored `App.tsx` to remove legacy settings page, streamlining the frontend routing structure.
- Enhanced `constants.ts` with new application-wide constants for better maintainability and clarity.
- Updated `AppContext.tsx` to simplify MCP operations, ensuring all interactions are routed through the backend API.
- Removed deprecated MCP configuration files, focusing on the new unified MCP client approach for better integration and performance.

This commit strengthens the documentation and improves the overall architecture, aligning with the recent rebranding to SafeAppealNavigator.

README.md, after:

# ⚖️ SafeAppealNavigator

*Support this project: [paypal.me/safeappealnavigator](https://paypal.me/safeappealnavigator)*

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator?style=social)](https://github.com/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator/stargazers)
[![License: Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Python 3.13+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

**Your intelligent companion for navigating WorkSafe BC and WCAT appeals. Organize case files, research legal precedents, and build compelling appeals with AI-powered document management and legal research.**

SafeAppealNavigator helps injured workers, legal advocates, and their representatives tackle the complex world of Workers' Compensation appeals. Whether you're dealing with a denied claim, preparing for a WCAT hearing, or organizing years of medical documentation, this tool transforms overwhelming legal processes into manageable, organized workflows.

## 🎯 Who This Helps

- **Injured Workers**: Organize your case, understand your rights, and build stronger appeals
- **Legal Advocates**: Streamline case research and document preparation for clients
- **Family Members**: Help loved ones navigate complex WorkSafe and WCAT processes
- **Support Organizations**: Assist multiple clients with consistent, professional case management

## ✨ Key Features

### 📁 Smart Case Organization
- **Document Management**: Automatically organize medical reports, correspondence, and legal documents
- **Timeline Builder**: Create visual timelines of your case progression and key milestones
- **Deadline Tracking**: Never miss critical deadlines or hearing dates
- **Evidence Categorization**: Smart tagging and organization of supporting documentation

### ⚖️ WCAT & WorkSafe Research
- **Precedent Discovery**: Find WCAT decisions with circumstances similar to your case
- **Policy Analysis**: Search and understand relevant WorkSafe BC policies and procedures
- **Case Strength Assessment**: AI analysis of your position based on similar successful cases
- **Gap Identification**: Discover what evidence or documentation might strengthen your case

### 📝 Professional Document Creation
- **Appeal Letters**: Generate well-structured appeal submissions with proper legal formatting
- **Medical Summaries**: Transform complex medical records into clear, compelling narratives
- **Case Briefs**: Create comprehensive overviews for legal representatives or hearings
- **Evidence Packages**: Organize supporting documentation for maximum impact

### 🤖 AI-Powered Insights
- **Plain Language Explanations**: Complex legal concepts explained in understandable terms
- **Strategic Recommendations**: Next steps and strategies based on case analysis
- **Document Analysis**: AI review of your documents to identify strengths and weaknesses
- **Research Assistance**: Intelligent search across legal databases and precedent cases

## 🚀 Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- **Python 3.11 or higher**
- **Node.js 18+** with npm
- **Windows, macOS, or Linux**

### Quick Start

1. **Clone the Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator.git
   cd safeappealnavigator
   ```

2. **Set Up Python Environment**
   We recommend using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) for managing dependencies:
   ```bash
   uv venv --python 3.13
   ```

   Activate the virtual environment:
   - **Windows (PowerShell):**
     ```powershell
     .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
     ```
   - **Windows (Command Prompt):**
     ```cmd
     .venv\Scripts\activate
     ```
   - **macOS/Linux:**
     ```bash
     source .venv/bin/activate
     ```

3. **Install Dependencies**
   ```bash
   # Install Python dependencies
   uv sync

   # Install frontend dependencies
   cd frontend
   npm install
   cd ..

   # Install browser automation capabilities
   playwright install chromium --with-deps
   ```

4. **Configure Environment**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Open `.env` in your text editor and add your API keys (optional but recommended for enhanced AI features):
   ```env
   OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-key"
   ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-key"
   GOOGLE_API_KEY="your-google-key"
   ```

5. **Launch SafeAppealNavigator**
   ```bash
   python run_app.py
   ```

   The application will start both the backend and frontend. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:5173`

6. **Optional: Configure Additional Tools**

   SafeAppealNavigator supports extensible tool integration through MCP (Model Context Protocol). You can configure additional research databases, document processing services, or legal research tools by editing `data/mcp.json`. The system comes pre-configured with essential file management and vector database tools for case organization and similarity search.

## 📖 How to Use

### 🏥 Starting Your Case

1. **Create New Case**: Set up a new case file with basic information about your injury and claim
2. **Upload Documents**: Import medical reports, WorkSafe correspondence, and any legal documents
3. **Build Timeline**: Add key dates like injury date, claim submission, decisions, and deadlines
4. **Describe Situation**: Provide details about your injury, treatment, and WorkSafe interactions

### 🔍 Research & Analysis

1. **Find Similar Cases**: Search WCAT decisions for cases with circumstances like yours
2. **Analyze Outcomes**: Understand how similar cases were decided and what factors were important
3. **Review Policies**: Research relevant WorkSafe BC policies that apply to your situation
4. **Identify Precedents**: Discover favorable legal arguments and supporting case law

### 📋 Building Your Appeal

1. **Assess Your Position**: Get AI analysis of your case strength based on precedents
2. **Identify Gaps**: Discover what additional evidence or documentation you might need
3. **Draft Documents**: Generate professional appeal letters and supporting documents
4. **Organize Evidence**: Structure your supporting documentation for maximum impact

### 📅 Case Management

1. **Track Progress**: Monitor deadlines, hearing dates, and case milestones
2. **Manage Communications**: Organize all correspondence with WorkSafe, medical providers, and legal representatives
3. **Prepare for Hearings**: Get talking points and evidence organization for WCAT hearings
4. **Document Everything**: Maintain detailed records of all case-related activities

## 📊 Real-World Success Stories

### 🏗️ Construction Worker - Denied Surgery Coverage
**Challenge**: Back injury from lifting, surgery coverage denied
**Solution**: Found 12 similar WCAT cases where surgery was approved, generated appeal emphasizing medical necessity
**Outcome**: Surgery coverage approved on appeal

### 🏥 Healthcare Worker - "Not Work-Related" Claim
**Challenge**: Repetitive strain injury denied as non-work related
**Solution**: Organized evidence linking injury to work duties, found precedents for similar injuries
**Outcome**: Claim accepted after comprehensive appeal submission

### 🚛 Driver - Mental Health Benefits
**Challenge**: PTSD after workplace accident, mental health benefits denied
**Solution**: Research showed precedents for psychological injury acceptance, organized witness statements
**Outcome**: Mental health claim recognized and benefits approved

## 🛡️ Privacy & Security

- **Local Data Storage**: All your case information stays on your computer
- **Secure API Connections**: All AI interactions use encrypted connections
- **No Data Sharing**: Your personal and legal information is never shared or stored externally
- **Open Source**: Full transparency - review the code yourself

## 🤝 Contributing

SafeAppealNavigator is open source and welcomes contributions from the community. Whether you're a developer, legal professional, or someone who has navigated the WorkSafe system, your insights can help others.

### Development Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/savagelysubtle/safeappealnavigator.git
cd safeappealnavigator
uv sync
```

### Code Standards
- Follow PEP 8 style guidelines
- Add comprehensive docstrings
- Include type hints for all functions
- Write tests for new features

## 📄 License

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

- ✅ Commercial use allowed
- ✅ Modification and distribution permitted
- ✅ Patent protection included
- ⚠️ Attribution required
- ⚠️ Notice of changes required

## 🆘 Support & Resources

- **Documentation**: Comprehensive guides in `/docs`
- **Issues**: Report bugs and request features on GitHub
- **Discussions**: Community support and questions
- **Legal Disclaimer**: This tool assists with legal research and document preparation. Always consult qualified legal professionals for legal advice.

---

**Created and maintained by [SavagelySubtle](https://github.com/savagelysubtle)**

*Empowering injured workers to navigate the legal system with confidence* ⚖️

---

## 🔧 Technical Architecture & Acknowledgments

SafeAppealNavigator is built using modern web technologies and incorporates several open-source libraries to provide its functionality:

### Core Technologies
- **Frontend**: React + TypeScript with Tailwind CSS for modern, responsive UI
- **Backend**: FastAPI with WebSocket support for real-time communication
- **Database**: SQLite with vector search capabilities for case storage and similarity analysis
- **AI Integration**: Support for multiple LLM providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, DeepSeek, Ollama)

### Key Libraries & Components

**Browser Automation**: Utilizes browser automation agents for intelligent web navigation and legal database research. These components enable automated interaction with WCAT, CanLII, and other legal research platforms.

**Model Context Protocol (MCP) Integration**: Implements standardized MCP client patterns for extensible tool integration. This allows SafeAppealNavigator to seamlessly connect with external services, databases, and specialized legal research tools through a unified protocol, enhancing document analysis and case research capabilities.

**Agent Communication (A2A)**: Implements an Agent-to-Agent communication protocol that allows specialized AI agents to coordinate complex legal research tasks, document analysis, and case preparation workflows.

**AG-UI Protocol**: Custom WebSocket-based protocol for real-time communication between the React frontend and Python backend, enabling seamless user interaction with the multi-agent system.

**Multi-Agent Architecture**: Employs specialized agents including:
- Document Processing Coordinator (with file system and database tools)
- Legal Research Coordinator (with web research and precedent analysis tools)
- Database Query Coordinator (with vector search and data analysis tools)
- Chief Legal Orchestrator (coordinating all specialized agents)

### Open Source Foundations

SafeAppealNavigator leverages and builds upon excellent open-source projects:
- **Playwright**: For reliable browser automation
- **LangChain**: For LLM orchestration and prompt management
- **AutoGen**: For multi-agent conversation patterns
- **FastAPI**: For high-performance API development
- **React**: For modern user interface development

This application represents a specialized legal research tool that combines these technologies to serve the specific needs of WorkSafe BC and WCAT case management.
